Update docs for connecting to Kubeflow Pipelines from the same cluster in multi-user mode (#2905)
kubeflow/website: content/en/docs/components/pipelines/sdk/connect-api.md

### Connect to Kubeflow Pipelines from the same cluster

#### Multi-User mode

Authentication uses ServiceAccountToken 
[projection](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#service-account-token-volume-projection) where token with limited lifetime, that can be verified by Kubeflow Pipelines API, is being injected into (e.g. Jupyter notebook's) Pod.

> In order to **access Kubeflow Pipeline from Jupyter notebook**, additional per namespace (profile) manifest is required:

Reviewer: nit: Kubeflow Pipelines

```yaml
apiVersion: kubeflow.org/v1alpha1
kind: PodDefault
metadata:
  name: access-ml-pipeline
  namespace: "<YOUR_USER_PROFILE_NAMESPACE>"
spec:
  desc: Allow access to Kubeflow Pipelines
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      access-ml-pipeline: "true"
  volumes:
    - name: volume-kf-pipeline-token
      projected:
        sources:
          - serviceAccountToken:
              path: token
              expirationSeconds: 7200

>               audience: pipelines.kubeflow.org      

Reviewer 2: I think it's important to explain how this works, as most users will have never seen this feature of Kubernetes.

Also, we should clarify that this `serviceAccountToken` method respects the Pipelines RBAC, and does not allow access beyond what the `ServiceAcount` running the notebook Pod has.

Author: I didn't want to overflow users with details some of them might not find important if their goal is just to have in-cluster access to pipelines working. 
Would adding something like this be enough, or you want to provide more info:
"More details about PodDefault can be found [here](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/blob/master/components/admission-webhook/README.md)".

Reviewer: +1 for the detailed info, because they need the details to understand how to access KFP API from any pod.

I think your argument about focusing on the minimum they need to know is also valid. What about adding a section at the end of the page to introduce the details.

Reviewer 3: > "More details about PodDefault can be found here".

It's should be good enough for me

  volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /var/run/secrets/kubeflow/pipelines
      name: volume-kf-pipeline-token
      readOnly: true
  env:
    - name: KF_PIPELINES_SA_TOKEN_PATH
      value: /var/run/secrets/kubeflow/pipelines/token
```

> After the manifest is applied, newly created Jupyter notebook contains additional option in section **configurations**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
After the manifest is deployed, newly created Jupyter notebook contains additional option (`Allow access to Kubeflow Pipelines`) in section **configurations**.
```

> After the manifest is deployed, newly created Jupyter notebook contains additional option (`Allow access to Kubeflow Pipelines`) in section **configurations**.

Reviewer: contains an additional option

Read more about **configurations** on [Jupyter notebook server](/docs/components/notebooks/setup/#create-a-jupyter-notebook-server-and-add-a-notebook).

> Note, Kubeflow `kfp.Client` expects token either in `KF_PIPELINES_SA_TOKEN_PATH` environment variable or mounted to `/var/run/secrets/kubeflow/pipelines/token`. Do not change these values in the manifest. Similarly, `audience` should not be modified as well.

Reviewer 2: This could be put first in this section, explaining that `KF_PIPELINES_SA_TOKEN_PATH` is what the `kfp.Client()` is looking for, and then how `serviceAccountToken` actually works. (From an auth-flow perspective)

> If token is found, `kfp.Client` puts it in the `Authorization: Bearer <token>` header where Kubeflow Pipelines API can read it. No additional setup is required to refresh tokens.

Reviewer: Do users need to know these?

Setup is similar for other cases like e.g. **cron tasks or in-cluster CI/CD**: Configure your Pod with token in either `KF_PIPELINES_SA_TOKEN_PATH` or `/var/run/secrets/kubeflow/pipelines/token` and `kfp.Client` will gain access to Kubeflow Pipelines.

> 

Reviewer 2: @bartgras I think there is an important piece of information missing, namely how to allow cross-namespaces access to the pipelines API. 

For example, giving Notebook Pods in `namespace-1` access to `namespace-2`  Pipelines can be done by giving, `namespace-1:ServiceAccount/default-editor` the `ClusterRole/kubeflow-edit` in `namespace-2`.

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: kubeflow-edit-namespace-1
  namespace: namespace-2
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: kubeflow-edit
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: default-editor
  namespace: namespace-1
```

Author: I was under assumption that users would use "Manage Contributors" to achieve the same result without additional RBAC settings.

Specifically, both `namespace-1` and `namespace-2` would require `PodDefault`s and then `namespace-2` would add `namespace-2` through contributors. I admit I didn't test if that's enough to get the access.If not, I can extend docs with your comment.

Reviewer: Both options should work, it's useful to introduce rbac when users want to configure on their own, probably with different granularity.

> #### Generic

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure we have a concept of "generic" @Bobgy what do you think?

Author: I agree. I wasn't sure what would be the right wording in this case. Could not find any other name in docs.

Reviewer: Maybe we can start with non-multi-user mode?

  volumes:
    - name: volume-kf-pipeline-token
      projected:
        sources:
          - serviceAccountToken:
              path: token
              expirationSeconds: 7200
              audience: pipelines.kubeflow.org      
  volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /var/run/secrets/kubeflow/pipelines
      name: volume-kf-pipeline-token
      readOnly: true
  env:
    - name: KF_PIPELINES_SA_TOKEN_PATH
      value: /var/run/secrets/kubeflow/pipelines/token
```

Note, technical details were put in the [How in-cluster authentication works](#how-in-cluster-authentication-works) section below.

After the manifest is applied, newly created Jupyter notebook contains an additional option in section **configurations**.
Read more about **configurations** on [Jupyter notebook server](/docs/components/notebooks/setup/#create-a-jupyter-notebook-server-and-add-a-notebook).

Note, Kubeflow `kfp.Client` expects token either in `KF_PIPELINES_SA_TOKEN_PATH` environment variable or mounted to `/var/run/secrets/kubeflow/pipelines/token`. Do not change these values in the manifest. Similarly, `audience` should not be modified as well. No additional setup is required to refresh tokens.

> Setup is similar for other cases like e.g. **cron tasks or in-cluster CI/CD**: Configure your Pod with token in either `KF_PIPELINES_SA_TOKEN_PATH` or `/var/run/secrets/kubeflow/pipelines/token` and `kfp.Client` will gain access to Kubeflow Pipelines.

Reviewer 5: "Setup is similar for other cases like e.g. **cron tasks or in-cluster CI/CD**" -> "Setup is similar for other cases (for example, **cron tasks or in-cluster CI/CD**)"

> Setup is similar for other cases like e.g. **cron tasks or in-cluster CI/CD**: Configure your Pod with token in either `KF_PIPELINES_SA_TOKEN_PATH` or `/var/run/secrets/kubeflow/pipelines/token` and `kfp.Client` will gain access to Kubeflow Pipelines.

Reviewer 5: [assuming I understood this correctly]

"Configure your Pod with token in either `KF_PIPELINES_SA_TOKEN_PATH` or `/var/run/secrets/kubeflow/pipelines/token` and `kfp.Client` will gain access to Kubeflow Pipelines." -> "Gain access to Kubeflow Pipelines by configuring your Pod with the token in one of the following:
* `KF_PIPELINES_SA_TOKEN_PATH` or
*  `/var/run/secrets/kubeflow/pipelines/token` and `kfp.Client`"

> ##### Managing cross-namespaces access to Kubeflow Pipelines API

Reviewer 5: Unless this wording is used elsewhere preference for something clearer like:

##### Managing access to Kubeflow Pipelines API across namespaces

> The setup can be extended to allow other namespaces to access Kubeflow Pipelines API through your namespace's Juputer notebook server.

Reviewer 6: NIT: Jupyter instead of Juputer

Reviewer: Maybe I misunderstood sth, I think the setting below allows `default-editor` service account in namespace-1 to call KFP API and create pipelines/runs in namespace-2. (it also allows access to notebooks, but we won't use a service account to access notebooks, the goal here is to grant namespaced pipeline creation permission to a notebook in a separate namespace)

@thesuperzapper is this what you wanted to convey?

> The setup can be extended to allow other namespaces to access Kubeflow Pipelines API through your namespace's Juputer notebook server.

Reviewer 5: Jupyter

> Note, examples below assume that `namespace-1` is a namespace (profile) that will  be granted access to Kubeflow Pipelines API 

Reviewer 5: "Note, examples below assume that `namespace-1` is a namespace (profile) that will  be granted access to Kubeflow Pipelines API through `namespace-2` Jupyter notebook server. `namespace-2` is already configured to access Kubeflow Pipelines API."
->
"Note, the examples below assume that `namespace-1` is a namespace (profile) that will  be granted access to Kubeflow Pipelines API 
through the `namespace-2` Jupyter notebook server. The `namespace-2` server should already be configured to access Kubeflow Pipelines API."

  ```
  apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
  kind: RoleBinding
  metadata:
    name: kubeflow-edit-namespace-1
    namespace: namespace-2
  roleRef:
    apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
    kind: ClusterRole
    name: kubeflow-edit
  subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: default-editor
    namespace: namespace-1
  ```

* **By sharing access to the other profile.**

  In this scenario, both `namespace-1` and `namespace-2` require `PodDefault` to be properly configured. Access is granted by `namespace-2` adding `namespace-1` as a  
  [contributor](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/components/multi-tenancy/getting-started/#managing-contributors-through-the-kubeflow-ui).

##### How in-cluster authentication works

Authentication uses ServiceAccountToken 
[projection](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#service-account-token-volume-projection) where token with limited lifetime, that can be verified by Kubeflow Pipelines API, is being injected into (e.g. Jupyter notebook's) Pod.

More details about PodDefault can be found [here](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/blob/master/components/admission-webhook/README.md).

> It is important to understand that `serviceAccountToken` method respects the Kubeflow Pipelines RBAC, and does not allow access beyond what the ServiceAcount running the notebook Pod has.

Reviewer: Do you think it's helpful emphasizing on the two steps: authenticate and then authorize?

1. service account token projection allows you to authenticate as the service account (default-editor in your namespace)
2. KFP API will verify whether your authenticated identity has the right permissions to do certain actions (RBAC)

Author: My understanding is that projected token is separate from the Pod's (e.g. default-editor) service account. 
I've modified this paragraph to:
"Authentication uses ServiceAccountToken projection. Simply put, the token is first being injected into a Pod (e.g. Jupyter notebook's). Then Kubeflow Pipelines SDK uses this token to authorize against Kubeflow Pipelines API."

Please @Bobgy @elikatsis @andreyvelich @thesuperzapper correct me if I'm wrong.
